# vanadium-flow-battery-project
Performance optimization and cost reduction of a vanadium flow battery (VFB) system is essential for its commercialization and application in large-scale energy storage. However, developing a VFB stack from lab to industrial scale can take years of experiments due to the influence of complex factors, from key materials to the battery architecture. Herein, we have developed an innovative machine learning (ML) methodology to optimize and predict the efficiencies and costs of VFBs with extreme accuracy, based on database of over 100 stacks with varying power rates.

successfully integrated the state-of-art ML methodology with our experiments in the R&D of VFB stacks, and optimized their materials and structures, and then predicted future development. This methodology could remarkably shorten the R&D and industrialization of VFB technology and it can be extended to other materials and structure design or the equipment-operating condition optimization of flow batteries. The models can reach a prediction accuracy of MAPE within 1% for both the VE and EE between experiment and predicted results, and within 5.2% for the UE, P-cost and E-cost, which is regarded as reliable and can be used to assist the optimization of VFB stacks and predict their performance and cost. As the E-cost accounts for the highest proportion (about 60% at the optimal operating current density) of the total cost within a VFB system, the core objective is to improve the UE of VFB stacks at a high current density, which would promote their rapid industrialization in large-scale energy storage. For example, the development of materials for the VFB stack should focus on reducing the electrochemical polarization and ohmic polarization at high current densities, and the design of the flow field should monitor the enhancement of mass transfer to decrease the concentration polarization of the flow battery stacks.
